---
layout: post
title:  A PhD in Computer Science
tags:
- Blog
- Post
- PhD
---

I moved to [Toulouse, France](https://www.toulouse-tourisme.com) to do a PhD in Computer Science at [ISAE-SUPAERO](https://www.isae-supaero.fr/fr/), focusing on complex systems.

I worked on routing and monitoring protocols for Delay tolerant networks (DTNs) based on a mobile and opportunistic infrastructure using temporal random walks (TRW).

Delay tolerant networks (DTNs) were introduced to deal with environments where interruptions or disruptions of service were expected. Such networks usually lack of end-to-end paths or any infrastructure to help communications. In these networks, mobile nodes may interact using their contacts as a communication opportunity. The store-carry-forward paradigm allows nodes to exploit spatio-temporal paths created by contact opportunities in order to deliver messages over time. Instead we raise the question: can we design a mobile and opportunistic infrastructure that could help deliver messages? In the quest to provide such infrastructure, we study the application of temporal random walks (TRW) over the opportunistic networks. We explore the application and impact of TRW as a minimal and non invasive infrastructure from two points of view: data forwarding and data recollection/transmission.

A video explaning my PhD

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yGDRonuaXqg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Publications:

- Ramiro, Victor; Lochin, Emmanuel; Senac, Patrick; Rakotoarivelo, Thierry; **"On the limits of DTN monitoring"**, 2013 IEEE 14th International Symposium on A World of Wireless, Mobile and Multimedia Networks (WoWMoM)

- Ramiro, Victor; Lochin, Emmanuel; Sénac, Patrick; Rakotoarivelo, Thierry; **"Temporal random walk as a lightweight communication infrastructure for opportunistic networks"**, Proceeding of IEEE International Symposium on a World of Wireless, Mobile and Multimedia Networks 2014

- Ramiro, Victor; Dang, Dinh-Khanh; Baudic, Gwilherm; Pérennou, Tanguy; Lochin, Emmanuel; **"A Markov chain model for drop ratio on one-packet buffers DTNs"**, 2015 IEEE 16th International Symposium on A World of Wireless, Mobile and Multimedia Networks (WoWMoM)

- Ramiro, Victor; Lochin, Emmanuel; Sénac, Patrick; **"Applications of Temporal Random Walks over Opportunistic Networks"**, Complex Networks: from theory to interdisciplinary applications

- Baudic, G; Auger, A; Ramiro, V; Lochin, E; **"Using emulation to validate applications on opportunistic networks"**

- Ramiro, Victor; Lochin, Emmanuel; Sénac, Patrick; **"Characterization and applications of temporal random walks on opportunistic networks"**,Computer Networks,111,,29-44,2016,Elsevier

- Baudic, Gwilherm; Auger, Antoine; Ramiro, Victor; Lochin, Emmanuel; **"HINT: from network characterization to opportunistic applications"**, Proceedings of the Eleventh ACM Workshop on Challenged Networks.

- Auger, Antoine; Baudic, Gwilherm; Ramiro, Victor; Lochin, Emmanuel; **"Using the HINT network emulator to develop opportunistic applications"**, Proceedings of the eleventh ACM workshop on challenged networks,2016,


My full list of publications [here](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=SjijVVkAAAAJ)